Update README.md (#330)
lightly-ai/lightly-train: README.md

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/752876370337726585?logo=discord&logoColor=white&label=discord&color=7289da)](https://discord.gg/xvNJW94)

*LightlyTrain is the leading framework for transforming your unlabeled data into powerful vision foundation models – from pretraining, over knowledge distillation to fine-tuning.*

Unlock the full potential of your data with state-of-the-art (SOTA) computer vision methods like **DINOv2** and **DINOv3**. Train any model architecture (YOLO, transformers, and beyond) and fine-tune with **segmentation** and **object detection** for your specific use case.

## Benchmarks

### Custom Foundation Model: Train your own DINOv2!

With LightlyTrain you can train your very own foundation model like DINOv2 on your data.

| Implementation | Model | ImageNet k-NN | Docs |
|----------------|-------|---------------|------|
| LightlyTrain | dinov2/vitl16 | **81.9%** | [🔗](https://docs.lightly.ai/train/stable/semantic_segmentation.html#semantic-segmentation-eomt-dinov3) |
| DINOv2 | dinov2/vitl16 | 81.6% | [🔗](https://github.com/facebookresearch/dinov2) |

> ### Object Detection

Reviewer: Maybe you also want to add something like `Object Detection: xxx!` to make it the same style as other titles and also show why it is a big thing.

#### COCO Dataset

> Implementation | Model | AP<sub>50:95</sub> | Latency (ms) | # Params (M) | Resolution | Model Weights |

Reviewer: The headings of the tables are not the same as those in the semseg tables. Maybe stick to one style?

Reviewer 2: too much effort for now

Reviewer: You could simply ask any AI coding agent to do this but fine for this time.

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/752876370337726585?logo=discord&logoColor=white&label=discord&color=7289da)](https://discord.gg/xvNJW94)

*LightlyTrain is the leading framework for transforming your unlabeled data into powerful vision foundation models – from pretraining, over fine-tuning to knowledge distillation.*

Unlock the full potential of your data with state-of-the-art (SOTA) computer vision methods like **DINOv2** and **DINOv3**. Train any model architecture (YOLO, transformers, and beyond) and fine-tune with **segmentation** and **object detection** for your specific use case.

## Benchmarks

### Custom Foundation Model: Train your own DINOv2!

With LightlyTrain you can train your very own foundation model like DINOv2 on your data.

| Implementation | Model | ImageNet k-NN | Docs |
|----------------|-------|---------------|------|
| LightlyTrain | dinov2/vitl16 | **81.9%** | [🔗](https://docs.lightly.ai/train/stable/semantic_segmentation.html#semantic-segmentation-eomt-dinov3) |
| DINOv2 | dinov2/vitl16 | 81.6% | [🔗](https://github.com/facebookresearch/dinov2) |

> ### Distillation: Distill the power of DINOv2 and DINOv3 to your model!

Reviewer 2: I'll remove the section

We trained with 12 epochs (~88k steps) on the COCO-Stuff dataset with `num_queries=200` for EoMT.

#### Cityscapes Dataset

| Implementation | Backbone Model | #Params (M) | Input Size | Val mIoU | Avg. FPS | Checkpoint |
|----------------|----------------|-------------|------------|----------|----------|------------|
| LightlyTrain | dinov3/vits16-eomt | 21.6 | 1024×1024 | 0.786 | 18.6 | [🔗](https://lightly-train-checkpoints.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/dinov3_eomt/lightlytrain_dinov3_eomt_vits16_cityscapes.pt) |
| LightlyTrain | dinov3/vitb16-eomt | 85.7 | 1024×1024 | 0.810 | 8.7 | [🔗](https://lightly-train-checkpoints.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/dinov3_eomt/lightlytrain_dinov3_eomt_vitb16_cityscapes.pt) |
| LightlyTrain | dinov3/vitl16-eomt | 303.2 | 1024×1024 | **0.844** | 3.9 | [🔗](https://lightly-train-checkpoints.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/dinov3_eomt/lightlytrain_dinov3_eomt_vitl16_cityscapes.pt) |
| EoMT (CVPR 2025 paper, current SOTA) | dinov2/vitl16-eomt | 319 | 1024×1024 | 0.842 | - | - |

> ## News

Reviewer 2: I think it's better to start with "why I should care about this product" rather than the "what is new"

[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/Documentation-blue)](https://docs.lightly.ai/train/stable/)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/752876370337726585?logo=discord&logoColor=white&label=discord&color=7289da)](https://discord.gg/xvNJW94)

*LightlyTrain is the leading PyTorch framework for training and pretraining vision transformers and foundation models*

> It makes it simple to train state-of-the-art architectures like **DINOv3**, **RT-DETR**, and **ViTs** using labeled or unlabeled data — from **pretraining** and **fine-tuning** to **large-scale distillation**. Vision Transformers achieve the highest accuracy in **segmentation** and **object detection** — setting a new standard for computer vision.

Reviewer 3: This is not super accurate, but maybe that's okay for the leading sentence.

See our [documentation](https://docs.lightly.ai/train/stable/methods/distillation.html)
for more details.

> ## 🔥 Train High-Performance Object Detection Models 🔥

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🔥 Fine-tune High-Performance Object Detection Models 🔥
```

fig.savefig(f"predictions.png")
```

## 🔥 Train SOTA Semantic Segmentation Models 🔥

LightlyTrain's EoMT semantic segmentation model based on DINOv3 achieves a new state-of-the-art on the ADE20K benchmark! See our [documentation](https://docs.lightly.ai/train/stable/semantic_segmentation.html) for more details.

You can explore training semantic segmentation models with the example code below:

```python
import lightly_train

if __name__ == "__main__":
    lightly_train.train_semantic_segmentation(
        out="out/my_experiment",
        model="dinov3/vits16-eomt",
        # model and dataset config
        # ...
    )
```

> ## How It Works [![Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/lightly-ai/lightly-train/blob/main/examples/notebooks/quick_start.ipynb)

Reviewer: The comment I made before was somehow missing, but I still think this "How it works" section is largely obsolete: it only contains pretraining, and the code is also covered in the earlier sections. 

I would suggest we put the installation before `"Pretrain Your Own DINOv2 Foundation Model"` (and even maybe make the pretraining, distillation, and fine-tning part subsections of `"How it works"`). The model loading code example can be omitted imho.

fig.savefig(f"predictions.png")
```

## 🔥 Train SOTA Semantic Segmentation Models 🔥

LightlyTrain's EoMT semantic segmentation model based on DINOv3 achieves a new state-of-the-art on the ADE20K benchmark! See our [documentation](https://docs.lightly.ai/train/stable/semantic_segmentation.html) for more details.

You can explore training semantic segmentation models with the example code below:

```python
import lightly_train

if __name__ == "__main__":
    lightly_train.train_semantic_segmentation(
        out="out/my_experiment",
        model="dinov3/vits16-eomt",
        # model and dataset config
        # ...
    )
```

## Tutorials

> - **Fine-tuning Example**: Looking for a full fine-tuning example? Head over to the [Quick Start](https://docs.lightly.ai/train/stable/quick_start.html#fine-tune)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fine-tuning Your Pretrained Models**: Looking for code example for fine-tuning after pretraining your model? Head over to the [Quick Start](https://docs.lightly.ai/train/stable/quick_start.html#fine-tune)!
```
